IP version 6 access lists in a similar way to IP version for access lists are applied to interfaces
either in an inbound or outbound direction.
You could apply a IP version 6 access list to a routing interface such as gigabit 00 or Serial 1 slash
0 but they can also be applied to switched virtual interfaces on a switch such as interface v land too.
Also remember that because of ships in the night IP version for an IP version 6 are independent of each
other.
So you could have both an IP version for inbound and outbound access list as well as an IP version 6
inbound and outbound access list on the same interface.
The IP version 4 access lists have no effect on IP version 6 packets and IP version 6 access lists have
no effect on IP version 4 packets in the same way as IP version 4 in IP version 6.
It makes sense to apply access lists on ingress rather than a grace interfaces to provide more security.
So on an Internet facing router you want an inbound access list denying traffic to the network and to
the router rather than an egg press interface where the writer is exposed to the Internet.
So rather deny before processing if required instead of processing packets and then dropping them.
It's less secure to use an outbound access list on a perimeter Rodders internal interface rather put
it on the external interface and block traffic before it's processed by the writers writing table when
traffic is leaving the internal or trusted network to go onto the Internet.
Apply it on the outbound interface.
So on Internet facing interface on a router traffic that arise from the Internet is processed ingress
or inbound traffic leaving the internal network to go to the Internet is processed outbound on that
Internet facing interface as always with access lists.
The hard part is determining how to filter traffic same applies to IP version for an IP version 6.
What are you going to permit and what are you going to deny generally you want to permit only certain
protocols or certain applications and block everything else.
So in other words anything that is not permitted will be blocked and that's why by default on Cisco
devices there's a deny any any at the end of an access list so for both IP version 4 and IP version
6 there's an implied deny any any.
So for IP version 6 we have deny IP vs 6 any any as the lost rule in an access list.
So unless you explicitly permit something it's going to be denied.
Now you can't simply copy your IP version for access lists and apply them to IP version 6 because you
have different protocols and you perhaps have different requirements for IP version 6 versus IP version
4.
It makes more sense to start with a brand new IP version 6 policy and only permit specific IP version
6 protocols rather than trying to copy your IP version for access list.
So you need to decide which IP version 6 packets and protocols are permitted into your network and which
protocols and packets are permitted out of your network.